waterfall.mdl by Preach(andrew.denner@btinternet.com)

This is the third release of a model for adding waterfalls to your map. The model comes with 5 skins:
Blue water
Brown water
Slime
Blood
Lava

It also comes with 4 animation sequences. The first sequence is a looping sequence, it can be placed in a map without any code and will animate automatically. The other three sequences are not grouped and so you have to animate in code. The middle sequence is the same loop of the water falling, just ungrouped. The other two sequences show the water beginning to fall, and stopping. Between the three of them you can create a source of water which starts and stops.

An important note: the animations are exported at 20 fps, rather than the usual 10 fps quake operates at. The looping sequence animates at the correct rate automatically, but you need to code the others with this in mind. The 20fps is just one of the enhancements over version one of this model. Some of the others include:

* Water that falls at the correct rate for normal quake gravity, including acceleration! You can make slower falling liquids if you want more viscous lava or slime - the high framerate will stretch to being played back up to half as slow.

* Better skins! Last time some of them were more proof of concept, I think they're all up to scratch now.

* The actual layout of the skin has changed as well so that there's a distinct top and bottom (although the bits in the middle are still repeated and mirrored). This helps creating skins that are clearly oriented, and the motion is easier to read.

* The model is resized to 64 units wide by 144 units tall, so the space it occupies is easy to judge in-editor. This also makes the texture match the texture density on map surfaces (horizontally at least)

Revision note:
Version 3 is a minor revision to the previous release. It changes the way that the vertices sit when idle during the start up and stop animations. This fixes the visual artifact where a line of polygons could be seen from some angles.