Copyright and Distribution Permissions (legal yakity shmakity)
--------------------------------------

The included source code in this release (not counting the Hipnotic and
Rogue stuff) is Copyright 1997, Carl Glave.
The models from Apocalypse are copyright 1997 Ethan Leon.
The skins and textures from Apocalypse are copyright 1997 Dan Bickell.
The original QuakeC source is Copyright 1996, id software.
The mosh ambient sound is from the gool 'ol guys at Quake Command.
The original esclator map was by Garry Cook.
Hipnotic's stuff in here is, of course, Copyright 1997 Hipnotic Interactive.
Rogue's stuff in here is, also of course, Copyright 1997 Rogue Entertainment.

Actura Software may have total and free access to this modification...
after an upfront $1,000,000 fee is payed in full(plus tax).

Authors MAY use these modifications as a basis for other NON COMERCIAL
works provided that the original author, Carl Glave is given express credit.

Authors MAY NOT use these modifications as a basis for other COMERCIALLY
available work without express written permission from the original author, 
Carl Glave. Permission may be granted on terms.

You may distribute this Quake modification in any electronic format as
long as all the files in this archive remain intact and unmodified and
are distributed together.


Mushy stuff AKA.Special Thanks
------------------------------
   Steve Funky-dude-hu(he claims it's actually Fukuda) Maintainer of Quake
Lab, for mental support that he's beem giving me. I'v been doing some stuff
for Apocalypse with him as you read above. Sorry to tell you this, but since
all super special stuff that will be in it are deemed classified and
confidential, I won't be added the stuff I creat for it to Custents till
after Apocalypse is released. After then however...
   A nice hardy thanks to Halotron for pointing out the big problem with the
trap shooters from before. Got me to add the grenades and arrows too, that
cool or what? :)
   Thanks to Jan Martin Mathiassen (TGR) for giving me the basic idea for the
healing entity. He finally came up with a good idea. ;) JK.
   I'd just like to take a small time out to thank Ged (Scott Manganello)
for the inspiration for some of these new features and entities.If he
wouldn't have had the patience to yammer back and fourth with me, I
probably woundn't have though of some of the new entities. He get's
lonly some times, so go check out his page. It's quite cool in a very
RPGesque way. Nice new word for ya there. :)
http://dragonfire.net/~BlackWind
   I'd like to give a quick thanks to Jimmy McKinney for pointing out the
little glitches that made me release v3.1 to fix. Gee, thanks alot ;P
   What can I say but THANK YOU HIPNOTIC! I've spent so much wasted time
trying to get those brushes to rotate, now I don't have to anymore :D BTW,
if you don't have Scourge of Armagon, get it. Get it now. You'll thank me for
proding you to get it. :)
