The Rune Slipgate - a component originated by Jeremiah Johnson as
                    the E1M5 Exit SlipGate at the QuakeLab and
                    adapted for qED by JF Groleau.

The QuakeLab - http://www.planetquake.com/QuakeLab
The qED Toolshed - http://www.cam.org/~jfgrol/

        TEXTURES USED:

        *TELEPORT for the slipgate core.
        COP1_1 for the pedestal and some slipgate frame faces.
        METAL6_3 and METAL6_4 for the slipgate frame.
        TRIGGER for the trigger_changelevel's child brush

        ENTITIES USED:

        trigger_changelevel, info_intermission

        WHAT TO DO:

        Extract the .qgp file from the archive and place it in the
        c:\Program Files\qED\Group folder. Once in qED, insert this prefab
        using the menu item "Group" + "load from library". The origin of this
        prefab is at the middle center of the slipgate. The position
        or offset of the inserted group will be referenced to the coordinates
        of the currently selected item in the level outline window. The group
        can then be moved and rotated to suit the map design. It is strongly
        suggested to move the prefab on a 32 unit (or more) grid to avoid having
        to re-align the rune textures on the slipgate which can easily turn into
        a nightmare. It is also a good idea to rotate it in angle increments
        of 90 degrees only. The back of the slipgate is normally butted right
        against the surface of a wall. It will work from the back also but it
        doesn't look that great from the rear end. Don't forget to fill out
        the 'map' attribute of the trigger_changelevel. The present value is
        set to start, just replace it with the name of the map you want the
        player to go to next. Move the info_intermission entity to the
        location of your choice and adjust its mangle attribute for it to
        point in the proper direction.

        FUNCTIONALITY:

        Here, 3 *teleport textured brushes are required: a central core brush
        that fits inside the slipgate frame and is visible and three more
        cosmetic brushes to hide the inner sides of the slipgate frame columns.
        The trigger_changelevel entity has a child brush with the trigger
        texture applied. Walking into the physical space of this brush triggers
        the action of the entity. The brush itself is not visible during
        gameplay.

        OPTIONS/COMMENTS:

        This slipgate comes from an original design by Jeremiah Johnson with
        minor modifications. It is what I believe to be an exact replica of
        the slipgate at the end of Quake level E1M5. Some textures were
        changed on the slipgate frame brushes and the position of those was
        also slightly changed to make the whole stucture more symmetrical
        and follow a 16 unit grid more closely to facilitate the re-alignment
        of the textures. The slipgate visible core bushes were thickened
        slightly (by two units) to make them fit on a 8 unit grid. The
        info_intermission entity is, of course, not absolutely necessary and
        is included here to make the prefab as complete as possible.

        CREDITS:

        Id Software (http://www.idsoftware.com/):

           For Quake, the best first-person game of the known universe. The
           rune slipgate is an Id original design straight level E1M5.

        Jeremiah Johnson (address unknown, mail me if you know!): 

           Boy, this guy is patient! Took me a whole day just to convert this
           prefab. Just imagine how much work it must have been to build it
           from scratch! Jeremiah, I raise my hat to you. Your prefab is
           nothing short of superb. Best one I've seen and worked on yet.
           A most interesting challenge. This one's a real timesaver for
           map designers.