DRAGON INFO:


   First of all, "monster_dragon" figures out what kind of dragon
   you want based on the skin value you give it then reassigns
   the classname to "monster_reddragon", "monster_bluedragon",
   etc. and finally calls the appropriate function to create
   the dragon.

   The size for each large dragon is from '-48 -48 -24' to '48 48 48'.
   The size for each small dragon is from '-16 -16 -24' to '16 16 24'.

   To implement many of the features the dragons have,  I
   used extra spawnflags and several edict fields defined
   in defs.qc.  Below are detailed descriptions of what
   spawnflags and edict fields are used and how they are used.

---------- Spawnflags used ----------
        AMBUSH - bit 1
   This is standard for most if not all monsters.  Monsters
   with the ambush flag wake up only when it actually sees a
   client (read player).

        PACIFIST - bit 2
   With this flag, a dragon will wake up only when it is
   injured or triggered by a client.  What this means it
   that even if the dragon sees you, that alone will not
   wake it up.  Because of this, pacifist will override
   the effects of the ambush flag.

   *Important note*:  Once a nightshade (and only a nightshade)
    wakes up, the pacifist flag is removed.  If the nightshade
    had the ambush flag as well, that flag remains untouched.

        DORMANT/STEALTH - bit 4
   For all dragons except the nightshade, the dormant spawnflag
   will cause the dragon to start the level asleep.  A sleeping
   dragon makes no noise whatsoever (because it is not flapping
   its wings).  A dragon that is sleeping cannot see clients.
   However, it can wake up by being alerted by other monsters,
   if you stray within melee range, or if it gets injured or
   triggered.

   You can combine the other spawnflags to produce deeper states
   of sleep.  A dragon with the spawnflags ambush and dormant
   will wake only if you stray too close, or it gets injured or
   triggered.  A dragon with pacifist and dormant will wake up
   only when injured or triggered.

   Once the dragon wakes up, the dormant flag is removed
   permanently.  It will never go back to sleep again.

   For the nightshade, dormant becomes stealth and it works
   differently.  With stealth, the nightshade is invisible
   and invulnerable while it is inactive.  However, it can
   hover still or move around, and it can see clients as well
   and wake up (unless pacifist is set).  If the nightshade
   is stationary, it is completely silent.  If it is moving
   while in stealth mode, you may hear eerie noises if you
   listen carefully.  Once the nightshade wakes up, it will
   materialize to attack.  Unlike other dragons, the dormant/
   stealth flag is not removed.  If the target is killed, the
   nightshade will phase out into thin air and remain cloaked
   until it finds another target.

   NOTE:  If you create a nightshade with both spawnflags
   'pacifist' and 'dormant' and it does not have a targetname,
   the nightshade is automatically converted into a 'misc_ghost'.

        NOPAIN - bit 8
   With this flag, the dragon can die only if it suffers
   damage greater than or equal to its health in a single
   frame.  Anything less is ignored.

        CRANKED - bit 16
   A dragon with this flag has greater attacking power than
   a similar dragon without it.  Small dragons become as
   powerful as large dragons.  Cranked large dragons have
   awesome firepower and strength.


        HIDDEN - bit 64
   This applies only if the dragon has a targetname and if it
   is not a nightshade.  A dragon with this flag starts the
   level invisible, insubstantial, invulnerable, and in stasis.
   The dragon will remain dormant until it is triggered.  Once
   activated, it will appear with the teleport effects.  In
   effect, this gives the illusion of a dragon that does not
   exist on the level at the start, then "teleports" into the
   level when triggered.


        HEALTH
   This sets the amount of the health the dragon has at the
   start of the level.  Minimum health allowed is 1 and maximum
   health allowed is 40000.  Default health for each dragon is
   shown below.

       Type      | Small | Large
   --------------+-------+-------
    Nightshade   |   50  |  250
    Gold dragon  |  200  | 1000
    Other dragon |  100  |  500

        HEIGHT
   This specifies the size of the dragon.  Sizes available to
   choose from are large and small.  Default size is large.
   Below are the values that determine size.

        0 = Large ('-48 -48 -24', '48 48 48')
        1 = Small ('-16 -16 -24', '16 16 24')

        LIP (applies only to the nightshade)
   This is the limit of the number of pawns a nightshade can
   create and have active at one time.  For example, a lip
   of 5 means that once it creates and owns five monsters, the
   nightshade cannot create anymore monsters until some of the
   monsters are destroyed.  If you do not provide a value, or
   the value is zero, the default value is set.  If you do
   not want the nightshade to create any monsters, give it a
   negative lip such as -1.

        Level 1 default is three zombies.  Maximum limit is six.
        Level 2 default is six zombies.  Maximum limit is twelve.
        Level 3 default is three nightshades.  Maximum limit is six.
         Nightshades that are spawned by another can create up
         to three zombies each.

        POS1
   This tells the dragon where it can find water.  If the point
   given is not in water, it defaults to the origin (no memory).

        SKIN
   This selects the skin (appearance) and type of the dragon.
   There are six skins available, and the values range from
   zero to five.  If you do not provide a value or you provide
   an invalid value (fractions are dropped BTW), the value will
   default to zero, which gives you the red dragon.

        0 = Red dragon
        1 = Green dragon
        2 = Blue dragon
        3 = Gold dragon
        4 = Nightshade

        STATE
   This defines the dragon's intelligence level.  Smart dragons do
   things like dodge projectiles or look for water while on fire.
   Five levels are available.  If you do not provide a proper value,
   it will default to genius intelligence for gold dragons or to
   high intelligence for all other dragons.

        1 = Low
        2 = Normal
        3 = High
        4 = Genius
        5 = Ultimate