---- The Vale of Dreams ----

A Quake map for the mod 'Quoth'

By: Redfield
Contact: credfield099@gmail.com

Installation:
-------------

-This map comes packaged with the 4th 100 brush jam. Unzip that jam into your Quake folder following the instructions provided in the jam
-This map must be played with the Quoth mod installed in your Quake folder
-This map is only tested in Quakespasm v0.93 and the latest (2018/05/23) Mark V v1.99 build. Other engines may offer support but are untested.
-To start the map first choose your skill level by selecting a portal in the start map, or bring down the console and type skill 0, 1, 2, or 3.
-Type map 100b4_redfield to start your journey into Wonderland...

The skill levels:
----------------

Skill 0 - Easy - You enjoy sitting by the riverside with your cat and that's enough for you. Your not sure how you ended up in this strange dimension, but its nothing a cup of tea won't solve...

Skill 1 - Normal - Well despite what that fraudulent, quack doctor said you are normal after all. Or at least you thought so until you ended up here...

Skill 2 - Hard - You've been to Wonderland before and are not only familiar with the strange creatures living there, but how to eliminate them as well.

Skill 3 - Nightmare - Something is definitely wrong with this place...

The Story:
------------

	Those frauds, those liars, those corrupt conspirators. You'll expose them, reveal them as the monsters they are! They tried to frame you, and lock you away forever in this insane place, but they underestimated your resolve and now it's time for a little payback. You have the evidence, you have your weapons and revenge is so close you can taste it. But first you have to escape from this strange dimension. And who is that mysterious girl in blue? Is she another victim of their conspiracies? Didn't you see her locked in their prison cells along side you? Whatever the case may be, it's time to finish this... 

About this map:
-----------------

	This map started out as a plan for a simple 'islands floating in the void' map for the 100 brushes mapjam. The theme of the map is inspired by American McGee's Alice, Alice: Madness Returns, and Alice in Wonderland. It is very difficult to make a detailed map with only 100 pieces of geometry, so I decided to incorporate a few mesh models in for detail. This quickly accelerated into making many custom models to enhance the look of the map, and in this respect it is 'bypassing' the rules of the 100 brush jam. It is not a serious entry in that respect. Modern games do not use bsp geometry to construct the game world, the entire world is built of 3D meshes which are imported into the game engine. And so in some small way this map is more similar to the way a modern game level would be made, than a Quake map. The Quoth mod by Preach also made it very easy to import these models as well as new sounds into the game.

	I had fun making the models, and also incorporated a few models made by Preach that I've never seen used before. Also included is a model of Alice originally from the American McGee's Alice game. I think they enhance the 'Wonderland' feel of the map to good effect. Although this map looks very different and strange compared to typical dark Quake maps, I think the Wonderland theme works well. The Alice game series has excellent artwork and it was a great inspiration here. I hope you have fun exploring Wonderland in The Vale of Dreams.

Credits:
---------

Author: Redfield
Testing: Mukor, Mariteaux, Ionous
Technical help: negke, Spike, EricW, Baker, Bal, kreathor, c0burn and others on func_msgboard and Discord
Special thanks to Spud for helping me with the Raven model
Special thanks to everyone on the Discord channel and func_msgboard for all their help and support, too many to list here.
Special thanks to everyone involved in Quake over the years, and to YOU! for playing this map.
Special thanks to Preach for Quoth

Music:
The track 99 'Alice in Quakeland' is mixed from Trent Reznor's Quake OST track 10 and 'Wasteland' by Chris Vrenna from the Alice: Madness Returns OST. I DO NOT own any of this music. 

Sound:
Alice voice originally by Kathryn Beaumont
Other new sounds mixed by Redfield from public sources.

Models:
Alice model originally by Rogue Entertaiment
Vines model by Preach
Mushroom model orginally by Preach
Other new models by Redfield

Textures: 
Some textures from The Castle of Koohoo by Vondur
Some textures from Castle Kaahoo by sock
Some textures from Unreal by Epic Games
Other new textures by Redfield

Legal Information
-------------------

This map is NEVER to be distributed for financial gain. You may offer this map for download but must include this readme.
This map is inspired by American McGee's Alice by Rogue Entertainment, Alice: Madness Returns by Spicy Horse and Alice in Wonderland by Walt Disney Productions. I DO NOT own any of these properties.
Quake is the property of id software.  

Secrets Guide:

SPOILERS!!!
-----------















Secret 1 - Down the Rabbit Hole: When you step onto the floating mahjong tiles you will be taken toward a huge chessboard. Floating beneath the chessboard is a game card with a weapon on it. To get this weapon you must drop onto the edge of the chessboard and walk around to where the card is, then drop onto it. I'll leave getting back up to you and the butterfly...

End Spoilers
--------------   
