DarkPlaces engine, Nehahra edition, version 1.05

Pretty much just click it and play, automatically loads -game nehahra and
special settings for Nehahra.

3DFX notes:
May or may not work with WickedGL, untested.

Known to not work with 3DFX glquake opengl32.dll (despite my best efforts),
rename/delete it to fix patchy lighting.

If you rename/delete quake\opengl32.dll, and get slideshow speeds,
get newer 3DFX drivers, preferably ones labeled as 'Quake3 compatible'.
If it still gets slideshow speeds or you have a V1/V2 not compatible with
the reference drivers, please don't complain to me as I can't help.

Brightness control console variables:

brightness 1-5 (default: 1)
Up to 5x brightness (quite bright).
(note: brightness works in the options menu)

contrast 0.2-1.0 (default: 1)
reduce this in very small (.05 usually) steps to bring up the black,
washs out the image but lets you see in dark corners better.

If anything doesn't work right, try out these console variables:

gl_lightmode 0/1 (default: 1)
New lighting mode, 0 is old GLQuake look, 1 is software quake style
(full brightness range), compare and salt to taste...  Some degradation
in image quality results, however the dynamic lighting especially benefits.

gl_multitexture 0/1 (default: 1 if you have a multitexturing 3D card)
If experiencing negative lighting or completely bizarre textures (Matrox),
you might want to set this to 0...

gl_nosubimagefragments 0/1 (default 0 unless 3DFX minigl is detected)
if you see a strange fragmented lighting glitch everywhere, turn this on but
it slows down dynamic lighting and uses a lot more memory like original
glquake did, note you must restart the level to see the change.

gl_nosubimage 0/1 (default 0)
if nosubimagefragments doesn't fix it, this should...

gl_lightmaprgba 0/1 (default 1)
setting this to 0 improves lighting quality (less banding) in 16bit modes,
however it has been known to disagree with certain drivers,
so it defaults to 1 for compatibility.


Engine and this readme written by LordHavoc ( havoc@gamevisions.com ),
based on source code by id Software ( http://www.idsoftware.com )
