-----------------------
NEHAHRA DEATHMATCH/COOP
-----------------------

Nehahra Multiplayer works the same way good old Quake does.  Not much
has changed except some optimizations.  However, there are a few
included features which I took the liberty of adding before this
release and in waiting for the multiplayer capable exe to be ready.

PLAYER MODEL/SKIN

In single player, you are the Jack Torres model, not that you see yourself
in single player unless you have CHASE_ACTIVE 1 which doesn't really work
as nicely as we would have liked.

In Coop and Deathmatch:

You are not restricted to using the standard QuakeGuy.
There is a console command called PMODEL which sets your model/skin.
There is not a great variety but enough to make DM interesting.  Note
that all thrown heads are the standard head, this was a last minute
addition I decided to put in.

Pmodel will be saved in your config.cfg as well.

PMODEL

0 = standard Qguy
1 = Grunt
2 = Ogre Mutant
3 = Labguy
4 = Major Bent
5 = Jack Torres

To switch models, you'd simply type PMODEL # ((# being the model number)).
This is indeed stored in your config.cfg file and will always be set when
you connect, to whatever value you last set the pmodel to.

When you switch pmodels, it will respawn you frag loss free.  This opens up
room for abuse but it's especially important for certain deathmatch modes
like Deathmatch 3 which will be later described.  The name of the game is
fun anyway =]


DEATHMATCH 3

Teamplay Deathmatch in conjunction with use of skins. ((i.e.
qguys versus Grunts, Bents versus Labguys :>)).  Like skin/models
cannot injure like skin/models.

TYPE (or Bind to a key) 'IMPULSE 221' to check on overall team scores.
Keep in mind that this keeps track of the scores even if someone leaves,
it doesn't recount the scores each time, it records it at the gain or loss
of every frag.


DEATHMATCH 4

This is deathmatch in the air :)  Potentially anyway.  Everyone has
constant flight as if they had the Flight Artifact.

This probably wouldn't work well on all levels, but if you come to find
a favorite.  You could probably run a 1 map server for a while and suck
all the fun out of it you can.  Flight can enable you to get to a lot
of places you otherwise could not and will spoil the "illusion" of many
levels depending on how they are built.

DEATHMATCH 5

DeathMatch Mode 5 is a little something I put in for myself but I think
others may appreciate it as well.  Among other things, Mode 5 allows
you to run DM games on maps that are not otherwise DMable (due to
lack of weapons placed in the level, info_player_deathmatch entities, etc).
But this is not to say that I would condone using it to play on
Nehahra SP levels and other non-Id SP levels because many levels
simply weren't built for this.

Sometimes the exits of certain maps (Nehahra SP maps in particular) are
not easily accessible from multiplayer(sometimes the death of a monster may
open a door for example) so the usage of FRAGLIMIT and/or
TIMELIMIT is highly recommended.

However, this works very nicely in normal DM maps.

When looking for a location to spawn, Mode 5 will use both
info_player_deathmatch and info_player_coop.  Each player spawns with
all weapons and some ammo for each weapon.  50 shells, 50 nails, 50 cells,
and 10 rockets.  It also gives you one regeneration artifact.

OTHER NOTES:

1.  Demo cutscenes will be skipped in COOP/DM just as if CUTSCENE = 0
2.  In-level cutscenes will be skipped in COOP/DM.
3.  Fog can be toggled from the client side so any mapper wishing to do
         a DM level is advised not to count on it being there and
         unchangable.
4.  You can use the Nehahra.exe to connect to normal netquake servers,
    but you must be running the nehahra.exe to connect to a nehahra.exe
    server.

